PROMULGATED BY THE TEXAS REAL ESTATE COMMISSION (TREC)
ADDENDUM FOR PROPERTY SUBJECT TO MANDATORY MEMBERSHIP IN A PROPERTY
OWNERS ASSOCIATION
(NOT FOR USE WITH CONDOMINIUMS) ADDENDUM TO CONTRACT CONCERNING THE PROPERTY AT
123 Main St, Boerne, TX 78006
(Street Address and City)
Cibolo Canyons HOA
(Name of Property Owners Association, (Association) and Phone Number)

05-04-2026
EQUAL HOUSING OPPORTUNITY

A. SUBDIVISION INFORMATION: "Subdivision Information" means: (i) a current copy of the restrictions applying to the subdivision and bylaws and rules of the Association, and (ii) a resale certificate, all of which are described by Section 207.003 of the Texas Property Code.

(Check only one box):

q 1. Within

10

days after the effective date of the contract, Seller shall obtain, pay for, and deliver

the Subdivision Information to the Buyer. If Seller delivers the Subdivision Information, Buyer may terminate

the contract within 3 days after Buyer receives the Subdivision Information or prior to closing, whichever

occurs first, and the earnest money will be refunded to Buyer. If Buyer does not receive the Subdivision

Information, Buyer, as Buyer's sole remedy, may terminate the contract at any time prior to closing and the

earnest money will be refunded to Buyer.

q 2. Within

3

days after the Effective Date of the contract, Buyer shall obtain the Subdivision

Information at Buyer's expense. Buyer is deemed to receive the Subdivision Information on the date of actual

receipt or date specified in this paragraph, whichever is earlier. Buyer may terminate the contract within 3

days after Buyer receives the Subdivision Information or prior to closing, whichever occurs first, and the

earnest money will be refunded to Buyer.

q 3. Buyer has received and approved the Subdivision Information before signing the contract. Buyer q does q does not require an updated resale certificate. If Buyer requires an updated resale certificate, Seller, at
Buyer's expense, shall deliver it to Buyer within 10 days after receiving payment for the updated resale certificate from Buyer. Buyer may terminate this contract and the earnest money will be refunded to Buyer if Seller fails to deliver the updated resale certificate within the time required.

q 4. Buyer does not require delivery of the Subdivision Information.

The title company or its agent is authorized to act on behalf of the parties to obtain the Subdivision Information ONLY upon receipt of the required fee for the Subdivision Information from the party obligated to pay.

B. MATERIAL CHANGES. If Seller becomes aware of any material changes in the Subdivision Information, Seller shall promptly give notice to Buyer. Buyer may terminate the contract prior to closing by giving written notice to Seller if: (i) any of the Subdivision Information provided was not true; or (ii) any material adverse change in the Subdivision Information occurs prior to closing, and the earnest money will be refunded to Buyer.

C. FEES AND DEPOSITS FOR RESERVES: Buyer shall pay any and all Association fees, deposits, reserves, and other charges associated with the transfer of the Property not to exceed $_____________20_0_ and Seller shall pay any excess. This paragraph does not apply to: (i) regular periodic maintenance fees, assessments, or dues (including prepaid items) that are prorated by Paragraph 13, and (ii) costs and fees provided by Paragraphs A and D. If this paragraph conflicts with any allocation of charges in the Subdivision Information, this paragraph will control.

D. AUTHORIZATION: Seller authorizes the Association to release and provide the Subdivision Information and any updated resale certificate if requested by the Buyer, the Title Company, or any broker to this sale. If Buyer does not require the Subdivision Information or an updated resale certificate, and the Title Company requires information from the Association (such as the status of dues, special assessments, violations of covenants and restrictions, and
a waiver of any right of first refusal), q Buyer q Seller shall pay the Title Company the cost of obtaining the
information prior to the Title Company ordering the information.

NOTICE TO BUYER REGARDING REPAIRS BY THE ASSOCIATION: The Association may have the sole responsibility to make certain repairs to the Property. If you are concerned about the condition of any part of the Property which the Association is required to repair, you should not sign the contract unless you are satisfied that the Association will make the desired repairs.

Buyer

Seller

Buyer

Seller

The form of this addendum has been approved by the Texas Real Estate Commission for use only with similarly approved or promulgated forms of contracts. Such approval relates to this contract form only. TREC forms are intended for use only by trained real estate licensees. No representation is made as to the legal validity or adequacy of any provision in any specific transactions. It is not intended for complex transactions. Texas Real Estate Commission, P.O. Box 12188, Austin, TX 78711-2188, (512) 936-3000 (www.trec.texas.gov) TREC No. 36-11. This form replaces TREC No. 36-10.

TREC NO. 36-11

